Data Converter updates (#1932)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/go/how-to-use-a-custom-payload-converter-in-go.md

- [`NewJSONPayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/json_payload_converter.go#L39)

The order in which the `PayloadConverters` are applied is important because during serialization, `DataConverter` will try the `PayloadsConverters` in that specific order until the `PayloadConverter` returns non-nil payload.
Last `PayloadConverter` should always serialize the value. The `JSONPayloadConverter` is a good candidate for this.

A custom `PayloadConverter` must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to payload.

To set your custom `PaylaodConverter`, use the [`NewCompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NewCompositeDataConverter) to set it with the `DefaultDataConverter` in the Client that you use with your Worker and to start your Workflow Executions.

```go

>  //need a better example here

Author: Will remove it

---

Use a [`CompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk@v1.20.0/converter#CompositeDataConverter) to apply custom type-specific `PayloadConverter` in a specified order.

The `PayloadConverter` converts bytes to values and back.

`NewCompositeDataConverter` creates new instance of `CompositeDataConverter` from an ordered list of type-specific `PayloadConverters`.
The following type-specific Payload Converters are available in the Go SDK, listed in the order that they are applied by the `NewCompositeDataConverter`:

- [`NewNilPayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/nil_payload_converter.go#L39)
- [`NewByteSlicePayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/byte_slice_payload_converter.go#L40)
- [`NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/proto_json_payload_converter.go#L59)
- [`NewProtoPayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/proto_payload_converter.go#L50)

> - [`NewJSONPayloadConverter()`](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/92138dd941d0de56367c2da4087845bf18d4bc4b/converter/json_payload_converter.go#L39)

Author: yeah; updated to the API ref. (I had these links in for my reference but should've updated before pushing it here)

The order in which the `PayloadConverters` are applied is important because during serialization, `DataConverter` tries the `PayloadsConverters` in that specific order until a `PayloadConverter` returns a non-nil payload.
The last `PayloadConverter` should always serialize the value.
(The `JSONPayloadConverter` is a good candidate.)

A custom `PayloadConverter` must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to payload.

To set your custom `PayloadConverter`, use [`NewCompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NewCompositeDataConverter) to set it with the `DefaultDataConverter` in the Client that you use with your Worker and to start your Workflow Executions.

```go
 //need a better example here
c, err := client.NewClient(client.Options{

> 	DataConverter: converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(converter.GetDefaultDataConverter(), YourCustomPayloadConverter()),

Author: Can you give me an example that I can use here? I haven't tested using custom payload converters in Go (and I dont think there is a sample for it)

> 	DataConverter: converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(converter.GetDefaultDataConverter(), YourCustomPayloadConverter()),

Author: removing the example for now.

> 	DataConverter: converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(converter.GetDefaultDataConverter(), YourCustomPayloadConverter()),

Reviewer: If you want to completely replace:

```go
dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(YourCustomPayloadConverter())
```

If you want to just add a new type:

```go
dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(
	converter.NewNilPayloadConverter(),
	converter.NewByteSlicePayloadConverter(),
	converter.NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter(),
	converter.NewProtoPayloadConverter(),
	YourCustomPayloadConverter(),
	converter.NewJSONPayloadConverter(),
)
```

> 	DataConverter: converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(converter.GetDefaultDataConverter(), YourCustomPayloadConverter()),

Author: thank you!

---
id: how-to-use-a-custom-payload-converter-in-go
title: How to use a custom Payload Converter in Go
sidebar_label: Custom Payload Converter
description: Use a `CompositeDataConverter` to apply custom `PayloadConverter` in a specified order.
tags:
  - go
  - developer-guide
---

> Use a [`CompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#CompositeDataConverter) to apply custom type-specific `PayloadConverter` in a specified order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use [CompositeDataConverter\](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#CompositeDataConverter) to apply custom, type-specific Payload Converters in a specified order.
```

> The `PayloadConverter` converts bytes to values and back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Payload Converter converts bytes to values and back.
```

> `NewCompositeDataConverter` creates new instance of `CompositeDataConverter` from an ordered list of type-specific `PayloadConverters`.
> The following type-specific Payload Converters are available in the Go SDK, listed in the order that they are applied by in the default Data Converter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`NewCompositeDataConverter` creates a new instance of `CompositeDataConverter` from an ordered list of type-specific Payload Converters.
The following type-specific Payload Converters are available in the Go SDK, listed in the order that they are applied by the default Data Converter:
```

> - [`NewNilPayloadConverter()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NilPayloadConverter.ToString)
> - [`NewByteSlicePayloadConverter()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ByteSlicePayloadConverter)
> - [`NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoJSONPayloadConverter)
> - [`NewProtoPayloadConverter()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoPayloadConverter)
> - [`NewJSONPayloadConverter()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#JSONPayloadConverter)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [NewNilPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NilPayloadConverter.ToString)
- [NewByteSlicePayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ByteSlicePayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoJSONPayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoPayloadConverter)
- [NewJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#JSONPayloadConverter)
```

> The order in which the Payload Converters are applied is important because during serialization, the Data Converter tries the Payload Converters in that specific order until a Payload Converter returns a non-nil payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order in which the Payload Converters are applied is important because during serialization the Data Converter tries the Payload Converters in that specific order until a Payload Converter returns a non-nil payload.
```

> A custom `PayloadConverter` must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A custom `PayloadConverter` must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from a Payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to a Payload.
```
